# Data

Organized by subfolder.

## `evidence`

Nominally, these files are ultimately used to produce inputs to mCADRE (or MBA, in previous iterations). I've stored them in a separate folder, as they might be useful in their own right. Files are further grouped into subfolders based on source:

### `hpa`

This folder contains tissue- (in this case cell-type) specific protein
expression data, based on antibody staining evidence from the  Human Protein
Atlas (HPA) website. At the time the data were collected (~2010-2012), HPA
didn't have an option to download all information for a specific cell type in
tabular format. Instead, I used some Python scripts to parse HTML tables across
multiple pages and save Ensembl IDs of expressed proteins.

+ **U-87_MG.txt:** Ensembl IDs of proteins expressed in the U-87 cell line,
broken into two lists based on 'Strong' or 'Moderate' evidence (I'd have to go
back and review the code to figure out what my logic was for assigning evidence
levels); this file was generated with the script `getHPA.py`.

+ **U-87_MG_genes.txt:** this should be the same list of genes/proteins as in
**U-87_MG.txt**, but with Ensembl IDs replaced with NCBI Entrez IDs (where
possible); this file was generated with the script `HPAensembl2gene.py` using
the **Homo_sapiens.gene_info** table to look up IDs

+ **U-87_MG_neg.txt:** at some point, HPA added lists/tables of proteins that
stained negatively in cell assays (I collected these lists to potentially use
as a negative control when validating the U87 model); this file was generated
with the script `getHPA_neg.py`

+ **U-87_MG_neg_genes.txt:** same idea as before, with Ensembl IDs converted to
NCBI gene IDs with `HPAensembl2gene.py`

+ **U-138_MG.txt, U-138_MG_genes.txt, U-251_MG.txt:** similar types of HPA data
collected for other glioblastoma cell lines (with the thought to incorporate as
supporting evidence); these were collected pretty early on and never really
used.

### `geo`

This folder contains microarray gene expression data from studies of the U87
cell line, collected from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO).

NOTE: For this iteration, I manually downloaded CEL files from GEO and used
some lab code for consensus processing and normalization. For a slightly more organized and reproducible approach, I would recommend referring to the `geo_new` section instead.

+ **all_datasets.mat*:** output of consensus processing/normalization of CEL
files; processing was done with the function `preprocessConsensusPlatform` (which I can't remember came from someone in the Price lab or the Matlab Bioinformatics Toolbox); this file was generated with the script
`U87GEODataProcessing.m` (it is also used as input to the same script, if data
has already been processed)

* this file is pretty large (~40mb); I realized I probably shouldn't put it on
GitHub

+ **U87_GEO_evidence.mat:** data compiled from **all_datasets** .mat file
described above and formatted for input to MBA/mCADRE; this file was generated by the script 'U87GEODataProcessing.m'; it is used as input to the script
`createU87mCADREInputs.m`

+ **U87_GEO_10272013.mat:** newer and slightly different version of
**U87_GEO_evidence.mat**; can't tell how it was generated or whether it was
used anywhere (should probably delete)

+ **U-87_MG_GEO.txt:** I believe this is just a union list of all genes from
the compiled GEO data.. or it might be those with non-zero expression - I'm not
entirely sure.

+ **U-87_MG_GEO_genes.txt:** however **U-87_MG_GEO.txt** was generated and
whatever it represents, gene symbols were converted to NCBI gene IDs using the
script `GEOsymbol2gene.py`.

### `geo_new`

This folder includes all files from a more recent effort to collect U87
microarray data from GEO, this time using a somewhat more systematic and
documented approach.

+ **GEO Datasets_GBM.xlsx:** this table describes the GEO datasets (GSE
accession ID) identified for U87, including what information I could find about
media conditions used in the study (note: I tried to limit collection to
datasets generated on Affymetrix platforms); the table also includes a list of
additional datasets that might also be worth incorporating; this table is
well over *two years* old, so it should definitely not be considered
exhaustive.

+ **sampleList.txt:** for the seven GEO datasets listed in the first table of
**GEO Datasets_GBM.xlsx**, this file provides the ID (GSM accession) of the
sample most relevant to U87 as well as the platform ID for the dataset; this
file is used by the script `importU87AffyData.R` to download data from GEO.

+ **GSE[x].txt:** MAS5 presence/absence calls for probes in each dataset in
**sampleList.txt**; these files were generated by `importU87AffyData.R`.

+ **GSE[x]_map.txt:** for each probe in the corresponding MAS5 data above,
these files include the Entrez gene ID (from `biomaRt`); these files were also
generated by `importU87AffyData.R`.

+ **U87_GEO_Jan2014.mat:** this file includes GEO data, combined from the
above datasets and formatted for input to mCADRE (i.e., ubiquity scores); this
file was generated by the script `compileGEOData.m`.

### `lab`

This folder nominally includes data that was generated in-house by members of
the Price lab.

+ **U87_fpkm.mat:** normalized (FPKM) read count data from an RNA-seq
experiment to study U87 with and without EGFR over-expression (and maybe
additional conditions) - I don't know what sequencing parameters or alignment/
processing steps were used, but this could probably be tracked down; the first
6 columns represent the control samples (U87 MG WT) and were used as input to
`createU87mCADREInputs.m`.

## `simulation`

This folder includes relevant information for defining parameters and constraints in model simulations (whether for testing, pre-processing, model-building, or validation). Files are further grouped into subfolders based on type of information.

### `biomass`

This folder includes the results of my attempts to define a detailed biomass
equation for U87 to use as an objective function in growth simulations.

+ **U87 biomass.xlsx:** full worksheet/table used for describing biomass
components and calculating coefficients for final equation; biomass definition
process followed steps and examples from published models (see **examples**).

+ **U87_biomass.txt:** single string of text representing final biomass
equation; this file was generated by the script `write_biomass.m`, which
extracts the appropriate metabolite abbreviations and coefficients from
**U87 biomass.xlsx**; this reaction can be added to a model using the function
`read_biomass` defined in `read_biomass.m`.

### `media`

This folder includes results from my attempts to define a specific growth
medium for U87 simulations.

+ **Media definition.xlsx:** relative amounts of various molecules and
compounds in either RPMI-1640 or DMEM (I'm not sure if RPMI-1640 was actually
relevant for any of my U87 data, or just used as an example/reference from
a previous modeling study); note: I don't think I ever got as far as scaling
constraints based on these relative amounts, instead just turning inputs 'on'
or 'off'.

### `experiments`

This folder includes results from other experiments that might be used to
either constrain or validate model simulations.

+ **Growth Curves for Sarah.xlsx:** I don't remember much about this file, or
who Sarah is for that matter... but it includes results (growth curves) from an
experiment with different U87 cell lines in DMEM and B-27 media conditions;
Cory Funk (in the Price lab) might know more.

+ **U87MG_Zfactors_082312.xls*:** results from an enzyme inhibitor screen
performed in the lab of David Hockenbery at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center.

+ **Enzyme_Inhibitor_List.xls*:** list of available enzyme inhibitors with
characterized targets (from the Hockenbery lab).

+ **u87inhibitors.mat*:** I don't remember how I imported and formatted the data
in Matlab, but this file includes the relevant information from the enzyme
inhibitor screen above, stored as Matlab variables; this file is used as input
to the script `U87InhibitorScreen.m`.

* because I'm not sure if the results or information related to the enzyme
inhibitor screen have been published or should be openly accessible, I've
removed these files for now; if the data is of interest, Dave Hockenbery
should be contacted about permission and collaborating.

## `models`

This folder contains different versions of both the generic (Human Recon) and U87-specific COBRA models, along with some related metadata. Files are grouped into subfolders based on generic or cell-type specific model:

### `recon2`

This folder includes assorted versions of the generic human metabolic reconstruction (in this case, Human Recon 2) used as a reference / starting point for U87 model construction.

+ **recon2_model.xml:** source SBML file for Recon2.0 model; read into Matlab using the script/function `convertSBMLToCobra_Recon2.m` (modified from the COBRA  toolbox version, because I had some trouble getting it to work right; might be better in newer versions of the toolbox).

+ **HR2_CbModel_Dec2012_wEnzymes.mat:** direct output of the `convertSBMLToCobra_Recon2.m` script; the SBML includes genes as metabolites in
the model, so these are removed by the script `removeReconGeneMets.m` to generate the model in `HR2_CbModel_Dec2012.mat`.

+ **HR2_CbModel_Dec2012.mat:** Recon2.0 (obtained Dec. 2012); this version of the model was used as input for the script `primeRecon2forU87mCADRE.m` (or for `HR2_addAstrocyte.m`, in an earlier iteration).

+ **Recon201.mat:** Recon2.0 with 4 additional reactions required for growth; this file was generated by the script `primeRecon2forU87mCADRE.m`.

+ **Recon201_U87.mat:** Recon2.01 with U87 biomass reaction added; this file was also generated by the script `primeRecon2forU87mCADRE.m`.; this version of the model is also used as the input for `createU87mCADREInputs.m`.

+ **HR2plusA_CbModel.mat*:** Recon2.0 plus additional reactions from astrocyte model published by Nathan Lewis; this file was generated using the script `HR2_addAstrocyte.m`

+ **HR2plusA_info.mat*:** some metadata generated by `HR2_addAstrocyte.m` when adding astrocyte-specific reactions to Recon 2.

* for whatever reason, I apparently decided not to use the reactions from the
Lewis astrocyte model when ultimately creating inputs for mCADRE

### `u87`

This folder contains data related to a U87-specific metabolic model generated by mCADRE.

+ **U87_CbModel.mat:** cleaned up version of the U87 model generated by mCADRE (found in `U87mCADREResults.mat`); this file was generated by the script `compileU87mCADRE.m`.

+ **modelStats.xslx:** summary statistics for reactions/metabolites in U87 model, as well as distribution of metabolites across cellular compartments; the data for this file was generated by the script `compileU87mCADRE.m`.

## `mcadre`

This folder contains the final inputs for and outputs from mCADRE.

+ **U87mCADREInputs.mat:** inputs for running mCADRE to generate U87-specific model, including pre-processed Recon2.01 model and various evidence data; this file was generated by the script `createU87mCADREInputs.m`.

+ **U87mCADREResults.mat:** outputs of mCADRE run, used as input for script `compileU87mCADRE.m`.

## `reference`

This folder contains some reference data from NCBI, mostly for tasks that could be done much more easily with `biomaRt`...

+ **gene2ensembl.gz:**

+ **Homo_sapiens.gene_info:**

+ **symbols2id.mat:**

## other

+ **`Workbook3.xlsx`:** I have no idea what this file is, but I'm going to hang onto it until I'm confident it's not important.
